This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. To order presentation-ready copies for distribution to your colleagues, clients or customers visit http://www.djreprints.com.http://www.wsj.com/articles/the-middle-class-squeeze-1443194736Go back, for a moment, nearly 30 years. In March 1987, Margaret Thatcher visited Mikhail Gorbachev, the reforming leader of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, in Moscow. Sitting in the Kremlin, the two argued for hours. At one point, Mr. Gorbachev accused Mrs. Thatcher of leading the party of the “haves” and of fooling the people about who really controlled the levers of power. The Iron Lady had an answer: “I explained,” she wrote in her memoirs, “that what I was trying to do was create a society of ‘haves,’ not a class of them.”In the era of Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher, those words carried conviction. There was plenty of argument, of course, about whether the means they chose were the best and about the fate of those who got left behind. But even critics reluctantly had to agree about which way history was heading: The society of “haves” in the West was growing; state socialism was imploding. Most of the rest of the world was hoping to follow the West’s example. Two and a half years later, the Berlin Wall fell. Almost all the newly emerging ex-Communist regimes sought market freedoms for their people. Back home in the Anglosphere, the spread of ownership—of stocks and homes—and the expansion of economic and personal opportunity were the dominant themes of the age. As Mrs. Thatcher bustled around Whitehall urging on her program of popular capitalism, she used to shout: “Every earner an owner!”Since the financial crisis of 2007-08, which Western leader could boast of spreading ownership in any important way? In the U.S. and Britain, the percentage of citizens owning stocks or houses is well down from the late 1980s. In Britain, the average age for buying a first home is now 31 (and many more people than before depend on “the bank of Mom and Dad” to help them do so). In the mid-’80s, it was 27. My own children, who started work in London in the last two years, earn a little less, in real terms, than I did when I began in 1979, yet house prices are 15 times higher. We have become a society of “have lesses,” if not yet of “have nots.” In a few lines of work, earnings have shot forward. In 1982, only seven U.K. financial executives were receiving six-figure salaries. Today, tens of thousands are (an enormous increase, even allowing for inflation). The situation is very different for the middle-ranking civil servant, attorney, doctor, teacher or small-business owner. Many middle-class families now depend absolutely on the income of both parents in a way that was unusual even as late as the 1980s.In Britain and the U.S., we are learning all over again that it is not the natural condition of the human race for children to be better off than their parents. Such a regression, in societies that assume constant progress, is striking. Imagine the panic if the same thing happened to life expectancy. When things go backward in nations accustomed to middle-class stability, people start to ask questions. What is the use of capitalism if its rewards go to the few and its risks are dumped on the many? The rights of property do not seem so enticing if the value of what you own collapses or if that property is trapped by debt. What is so great about globalization if it means that the products and services you offer are undercut by foreign competition and that millions of new people can come to your country, take your jobs and enjoy your welfare benefits? Great international banks and other corporations—and their top executives—can devise a life that escapes normal tax jurisdictions. Their successes are globalized and accrue chiefly to them; their failures crawl back home to die, at the expense of the rest of us. So instead of feeling that it is a privilege to be an ordinary citizen of a free country, many of us start to feel a bit like suckers. Hope—the inseparable companion of progress—fades and is replaced by disappointment, even bitterness. It has always been understood that opportunity carries some price of insecurity, but what happens if insecurity rises and opportunity contracts?Where might one find a useful analysis of what is happening today in the market democracies of the West? How about this: “The executive of the modern State is but a committee for managing the common affairs of the bourgeoisie.” Or this: “Modern bourgeois society…is like the sorcerer, who is no longer able to control the power of the nether world which he has called up by his spells.” Or this: “The productive forces no longer tend to further the development of the conditions of bourgeois property: on the contrary, they have become too powerful for these conditions…[and] they bring disorder into the whole of bourgeois society, endanger the existence of bourgeois property.” All these quotations are from a work published in 1848 that caused quite a stir. It was written by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels and was called “The Communist Manifesto.” Even now, people have heard of it. By the last quarter of the 20th century, most people had seen a key aspect of Marx and Engel’s analysis disproved. The celebrated bearded communists had argued that capitalism would reduce all of society to only two classes: the prosperous bourgeoisie, who owned the capital, and the impoverished proletariat, who contributed their labor. Modern industrial production would inevitably depress the living standards of the proletariat, they believed, but also, in the end, increase their power. Having created a form of slavery, capitalism would be overthrown by its slaves. The proletarian masses would become the dictators. This did not happen. Instead, the bourgeoisie grew so large that today it is commonplace for American politicians to speak of the “middle class” and mean much the same as people used to mean by “the workers.” In “The Communist Manifesto,” Marx and Engels refer to “the bourgeoisie, i.e., capital.” They scorned private property, pointing out that nine-tenths of the population had none. It did not cross their minds that the bourgeois class could be numerous enough to win elections in an era of universal suffrage; yet that is what happened. Margaret Thatcher also equated the bourgeoisie with property and capital, but she saw this as empowering the many, not the few. In the 21st century, however, it is not surprising that many members of the middle class now see themselves as prisoners of the system that they helped to create. Phrases like “negative equity” and “credit crunch” capture that. A lot of words that have a specific economic or financial meaning also draw on a moral meaning—value, bonds, goods, security, even “collateralized debt obligations.” The word “credit” itself means “trust” or “belief.” The relationship between money and morality, on which the middle-class order depends, has been seriously compromised over the past decade. Which means that the mass bourgeoisie (a phrase that Marx and Engels would have thought a contradiction in terms) start to feel like the new proletariat. But pretty much the whole of the developed world is still in the convalescent ward, and no one is sure whether the wonder drug of quantitative easing can yet be abandoned, or even whether it does no more than suppress the symptoms of disease. Despite years of supposed austerity, debt is still strikingly high. It remains possible that banks, or even whole countries in the eurozone, could collapse. And who knows whether or not China’s big banks are bust? There is clearly an unmet need for a politics that goes beyond mere grievance-peddling to develop a new way of thinking about what makes a society free and secure at the same time. If this were easy, we would have heard more of it by now, and I won’t pretend to have the answers. But certain basic principles seem like the proper foundation.To the extent that people cheat in markets, they are not real markets, any more than antifreeze labeled “wine” is real wine. Too many advocates of markets have allowed themselves to be suborned into becoming apologists for business. And too many businesses now operate as if their responsibilities are only to themselves and not to consumers. This is perhaps most evident in the preposterous salaries paid, particularly in the U.S. and Britain, to top executives of public companies. If the owners of these companies truly exercised authority over what is theirs, this wouldn’t happen. If these enterprises had grown over the last 20 years at the same rate as pay for the men who run them (it usually still is men), no one would be talking of a crisis of capitalism. Ownership of housing, stocks and pensions is an area where creativity has died. This failing of our consumer society may owe something to the baby boomers’ desire to “have it now,” but another part of the problem is that people are correctly no longer confident that what they save now will be available to them later. Savings need more long-term government protection than they receive in most Western societies. A business culture based on deals and bonuses means that the best business minds are not interested in saving. The ideal of ownership also needs to apply more fully to civil society. It might be a good idea, for example, if citizens could establish ownership rights over their local school by becoming “members.” Under the existing arrangements, how much can parents and communities creatively affect what happens in schools? The charter-school movement in the U.S. and “academies” and “free schools” in Britain are working in the right direction but remain a long way from something citizens can feel they own. These rights would give people a voice when things go wrong, rather as some congregations have a say in their churches. In Britain, there is an admirable and long-standing body called the Wine Society, wholly owned by its members with the sole purpose of getting them good wine at good prices. There could be some bold ideas about applying this principle to things so important that they can’t be bottled, such as health. The Victorians were more imaginative than we are about principles of mutuality—credit unions, building societies, the cooperative movement. Such organizations feel creakier in an age when people want larger sums, faster. But is it really beyond the skill of our great modern business brains to develop these concepts and adapt them to modernity? Financial creativity, unfortunately, really has become the preserve of the few, for the few. Democracy and the rule of law exist only because of national jurisdictions. If those jurisdictions blur, as they do in the European Union, people’s trust in the polity weakens and the structures of answerability become too opaque. For all his love of trade, Adam Smith understood this. His great work is called “The Wealth of Nations,” not “The Wealth of the Global Community.” Out of the allegiance that citizens feel to their country and its legal and political institutions comes the confidence to deal fairly with the wider world. The global village works best if each village householder is secure in his title to his own property and master in his own house. If the national and the global are not held in balance, popular fear of the global elites will (justifiably) grow. As happened in the 1930s, we will see weak, goody-goody international bodies wagging their finger ineffectually at strong, nasty nationalist regimes. I am no alarmist, and no one should worry that I have become a late convert to Marxism. Marx’s prescriptions were mostly wrong, and his spirit was intolerant and coercive. He did not understand markets or respect political institutions, and he thought liberty was a sham. But Marx did have an insight about the disproportionate power of the ownership of capital. The owner of capital decides where money goes, whereas the people who sell only their labor lack that power. This makes it hard for society to be shaped in their interests. In recent years, that disproportion has reached destructive levels, so if we don’t want to be a Marxist society, we need to put it right. LIfe today is incredibly more complex compared to, say, the 1970s or before.  We have more services, objects and experiences that we've come to take for granted and that we consider "just the basics."  The price of entry to such a life is high, witness today's adolescence extending almost into the 30s.  And woe to the person who falls off the track, because it can be almost impossible to recover.  Added to this mix, is the casualness with which people behave in ways our ancestors knew were contrary to a good and productive life, such as unwed parenthood, debauchery, divorce, going into major debt, etc.  LIfe today is incredibly more complex compared to, say, the 1970s or before.  We have more services, objects and experiences that we've come to take for granted and that we consider "just the basics."  The price of entry to such a life is high, witness today's adolescence extending almost into the 30s.  And woe to the person who falls off the track, because it can be almost impossible to recover.  Added to this mix, is the casualness with which people behave in ways our ancestors knew were contrary to a good and productive life, such as unwed parenthood, debauchery, divorce, going into major debt, etc.  As a nation, we legislate wrongly and litigate too much.We pass too many wrong laws: perfectionist environmental regulations that have negative effects on the business and economic sectors of society; universal home ownership mandates missing important safeguards concerning loan qualifications; a medical plan that creates havoc in the world's best medical system; laws that restrict individual freedom and liberty in service of some nebulous Utopian dream, creating especially onerous burdens on the new and small businesses that are the major job generators.We litigate too much: in the medical arena, malpractice premiums and verdicts are through the roof; in patent and trademark litigation, to assure an enormous victory just file in the proper District Court in East Texas; every 'injury', no matter how trivial, is now a cause of action in either criminal or civil court, or in some administrative setting.Our Founding Fathers - we need to remember what they created and what they stood for.Take note Bernie Sanders"The statesman who should attempt to direct private people in what manner they ought to employ their capitals would not only load himself with most unnecessary attention but assume an authority which could safely be trusted to no council and senate whatever, and which would nowhere be so dangerous as in the hands of man who have folly and presumption enough to fancy himself fit to exercise it."Subhead: "we must think creatively about how to make the middle class more prosperous and secure"I would like to be more prosperous and secure. My favorite activities are watching TV and playing Xbox. I would appreciate it if, during a commercial break, Mr. Moore would come to my house and "make me" more prosperous.Same old thing.People who take the time to learn how to be, do and have are berated by those who do not take the time to learn how to be, do and have and so have less.Then, some idiot promises them more while doing less. They believe it and attack those that have.Google,   The Tax System Explained in Beer"between any Western leader and the hostile and suspicious Vladimir Putin." This kind of nonsense has to stop. You cannot read an article without the WSJ or any other major media source saying essentially the same thing. They keep hammering this point home. The reality is, of course, that Putin has constantly been reaching out to the West and been snubbed. He has tried to work with us but we have continued to demonize him. The sabre rattling is great for the PNAC agenda and the MIC. People have to be smarter than that. They have to be a little more attentive to details. Reject the US leaders who beat this drum. Pay attention. Our best interests lie in diplomacy, not war. "between any Western leader and the hostile and suspicious Vladimir Putin." This kind of nonsense has to stop. You cannot read an article without the WSJ or any other major media source saying essentially the same thing. They keep hammering this point home. The reality is, of course, that Putin has constantly been reaching out to the West and been snubbed. He has tried to work with us but we have continued to demonize him. The sabre rattling is great for the PNAC agenda and the MIC. People have to be smarter than that. They have to be a little more attentive to details. Reject the US leaders who beat this drum. Pay attention. Our best interests lie in diplomacy, not war. Putin does NOT have our interests at heart -- in fact, I'm guessing he could care less about them.It must be a 100-year cycle of trying outsource hard work to overseas that ends with a warWhat responsible people want most in life from 'the markets' is for it to deliver steady, reliable employment at a wage that enables them to raise a small family. It does not even have to pay enough to buy a house or two cars or college for their kids or stock. Just enough to pay all their basic needs and for the employment to be steady and certain. (The uncertainty of today's labor markets is far more important than pay inequality.) Most people have no idea how to manage their own professional working life. They  just want to have an opportunity to work for a good local company. Americans need to be taught again from an early age not to depend on anyone but themselves for employment. But in concert with that, the government must partner with businesses to make it as easy as possible to employ people and pay decent wages. Right now, government is in opposition to business and business is 'maximizing shareholder value'. We see the results.What responsible people want most in life from 'the markets' is for it to deliver steady, reliable employment at a wage that enables them to raise a small family. It does not even have to pay enough to buy a house or two cars or college for their kids or stock. Just enough to pay all their basic needs and for the employment to be steady and certain. (The uncertainty of today's labor markets is far more important than pay inequality.) Most people have no idea how to manage their own professional working life. They  just want to have an opportunity to work for a good local company. Americans need to be taught again from an early age not to depend on anyone but themselves for employment. But in concert with that, the government must partner with businesses to make it as easy as possible to employ people and pay decent wages. Right now, government is in opposition to business and business is 'maximizing shareholder value'. We see the results. well... I guess you can keep good men down. well... I guess you can keep good men down.The only solution for this dystopian spectre is raising educational standards.  That'll take a lot more than free junior college.  A kid who didn't learn in high school won't learn in free college, either.   It will take serious commitment on the part of all students, not just the most able.If the government would stop taking money from the middle class, and giving it to the underclass to buy votes, the middle class would be doing much better, and the underclass would have incentives to find employment, thus joining the middle class.If the government would stop taking money from the middle class, and giving it to the underclass to buy votes, the middle class would be doing much better, and the underclass would have incentives to find employment, thus joining the middle class.Depending on how you define the Middle Class, you will find the government takes nothing from them since most families making the median income pay very little if any federal income tax. They do pay a payroll tax and Make Medicaire payments but get that back in spades.  In this country taxation is actually very moderate which is why we are running deficits given the rather limited level of federal spending for areas outside entitlements. Most of the money spent outside of entitlements is for defense (which is a corrupt mess) and subsidies to farmers and industry who are reliable Republican voters.Depending on how you define the Middle Class, you will find the government takes nothing from them since most families making the median income pay very little if any federal income tax. They do pay a payroll tax and Make Medicaire payments but get that back in spades.  In this country taxation is actually very moderate which is why we are running deficits given the rather limited level of federal spending for areas outside entitlements. Most of the money spent outside of entitlements is for defense (which is a corrupt mess) and subsidies to farmers and industry who are reliable Republican voters.Actually, what has happened to society, overall, over the past 50 years?  In fact, contrary to the unsupported assertions of the author, poverty has been dramatically reduced. This has occurred almost entirely due to the effects of capitalism, with little contribution to the efforts of government.  The real question to ask is WHY, this this record of improvement, is an author misstating the problems we face? In general 'social engineers' try to fix the current problems with tools that failed in the past. You cannot create a middle class no more than you can create gold from lead. You can only distort economics so much. If it can be done for 1/4 the US wages in China, it will be. We are fools if we think we can erect trade barriers forever. Better to focus on a government that sets the stage for business success with reasonable taxes, regulation, and trade support. Too often in America, business is something to shake down for Washington politicians. They rail at 'greedy businessmen', then actively sell tax benefits and government contract to raise campaign funds. There is something wrong here when Sweden has lower corporate taxes and is more business friendly than the USA..Wait....since when have either the US or UK operated under a capitalist system?  With as much regulation and money manipulation that exists in both economies they would better be described as fascist, which is just another form of socialism without the fig leaf of the lie that everyone is treated equally, rather than capitalist.  Any argument that capitalism doesn't work because of what is happening in the US or UK fails by the simple fact that capitalism has never actually been tried in either country.  On the order of 100 million people have died as a direct result of trying Marx's ideas.  Countless others have been consigned to lives of drudgery.On the other hand, we live in a society that is the most inventive, the most comfortable, the most prosperous, the longest lived, ever in existence, due entirely to capitalism.  With the wealthiest lower classes, by the way.100 million is the LOW estimate.100 million is the LOW estimate. We're well overdue for 21st century ideas about wealth.  Why do we even evoke 19th century Karl Marx? I can read the Entertainment section and never see a 20th century Marx (Chico, Harpo, Zeppo, and Groucho), but I still read about (almost 200-year-old) Karl.Speaking of new ideas, who actually defines "middle class," and by what metrics do we rate its well-being?  I'm only middle class, but I can't recall ever having access to so much information, so many educational opportunities, such advanced automobiles, or such healthy food.  By any reasonable measure of human history, I'm doing quite well!  Am I supposed to be jealous because someone has a nicer car or a bigger house?  No 19th century philosopher can cure jealousy; I have to figure that out on my own.Similarly, I'm not convinced that "ownership" is an appropriate 21st century standard.  I own a house; so what?  It isn't a farm; it doesn't produce.  It will decay, just like my neighbor's nice car. The problem of the modern world has nothing to do with Marx, but with Gatekeepers who have taken control of society and tyrannize the middle class.  They are of the Left, Right and Professional types.  The Left type uses belief in outmoded progressive ideology to control others mainly through the utterly evil environmental movement - a religious belief - that allows them to tell us what kind of lightbulbs to use/size of pop to drink/what to build where/how to use water, etc. wrapped in a pious robe of pseudo-scientific authority - all that sand in the gas tank slows every thing down and the uncertainty creates more costs.  The Right uses gatekeeping to preserve the perks they already have, being terrified tyrants like Obama will come up with new theft from the left.  This is where the tax breaks, high corporate salaries and bailouts come from.The Pros are the lawyers/technocrats/advisors who are parasites on the system and want to control the Flow so as to profit on it.  Simple greed....growing up in the late 50's no one seemed to have much at all in the post-war suburb of Boston that I grew up in except for a few old and wealthy families - and no one complained about 'being poor' - in fact, I think people were even happier then - whereas it's absolutely astonishing today at the levels to which all people consume goods & services - cell phones, fancy sneakers, fancy food, travel, cars, computers, etc....and it's still not 'enough'?! ..re: expensive housing - a growing population puts pressure on the housing supply driving prices  upwards especially in urban areas....we hear about people's "right to live" where they want to ...and in NYC seemingly demand to live in downtown Manhattan...while Mayor DeBlasio does his best to create low-cost housing out of thin air...yet, someone's got to pay for it?! Everyone seems to feel  entitled today to have anything they want with very little expected in return - as long as you can yell loud & campaign hard enough for it....A. Great Britain is at best a socialist country where some Crony capitalism is allowed... No where near a capitalist country.The great trick of the nanny states is/was taking individuals retirement equity out of the individuals control so they stopped rationally becoming more and more of a capitalist bent as their equity increased to outearn their yearly work incomes.Added to the Pension fund disconnect trick is the constant growth in "Payroll deductions" that punish the middle classes so thoroughly they can't even afford a replacement birth rate.The article is Grossly wrong in cause and effect.We can start by not employing Marx's labeling. Middle "Class" is subtly self-limiting, confining, denoting a sense of (immovable) place. It does not belong, and should not apply to the U.S. While well aware of its near universal usage these days, it plays into a downer, can't-win attitude. Enter Big Government.  Class is a Euro thing; to the extent it applies in America, it is due to adopting the policies of that continent and pretty much the rest of the world.Middle income, lower income, upper income - these are the descriptors for the dynamic nature of movement within those groups - both down, and up. In running a small professional consulting practice, we should at least talk about education.  It is the one major variable that can take most individuals from the poverty line to the middle class (I was one of these).  However, the educational system and the people in it are failing to utilise it properly.  First of all, take something that most employers will find your knowledge and skills useful.  Secondly, the cost of education has become pretty ridiculous and combined with the first point, the value of that education may be poor.  Get some job experience, even in retail, as most people have to eventually serve someone.   Work awhile at something if you don't know what to take in school.  Parents, try to stay together (get help if needed) for the sake of your kids economic future.  They need a supportive and encouraging family environment.  It's hard for kids to study if there are big problems at home (sorry if I'm not politically correct) and it is hard being a single parent. In running a small professional consulting practice, we should at least talk about education.  It is the one major variable that can take most individuals from the poverty line to the middle class (I was one of these).  However, the educational system and the people in it are failing to utilise it properly.  First of all, take something that most employers will find your knowledge and skills useful.  Secondly, the cost of education has become pretty ridiculous and combined with the first point, the value of that education may be poor.  Get some job experience, even in retail, as most people have to eventually serve someone.   Work awhile at something if you don't know what to take in school.  Parents, try to stay together (get help if needed) for the sake of your kids economic future.  They need a supportive and encouraging family environment.  It's hard for kids to study if there are big problems at home (sorry if I'm not politically correct) and it is hard being a single parent.  It is a thought provoking article, but alas I believe misses the crux of the matter.  Is there opportunity in the US.  I say, very much so, yes:1. 80% of the wealth in the US changes hands every 3rd generation.2. Hordes of people in the world wish to live in the US to improve their situation.3. No sane person dies of hunger in the US.4. Creature comforts, like cable, cell phones and Chipotle are enjoyed by nearly all.So, why the change in the percentage of the middle class.  I say, it is almost entirely a change in culture, particularly work ethic.  A young person, who shows up to work and simply does the bare minimum the job requires is a super star; a rare comet of brilliant success.  Until our culture once again celebrates delayed gratification, we are headed for a shrinking middle class, as those with little means, spend those means on getting the next Iphone, rather than saving or investing to secure their status in the middle class. I would like to commend Mr. Moore for a well though out article and the WSJ for printing it.  It refreshingly omitted party dogma and ideology and it is a discussion we sorely need to have.  I would call him out on a few points though.  First, our middle class has been disappearing since the 70s.  Second, Marx did not put a time limit on his predictions and neither should you.  He may be correct yet.  Third, the issue of corruption is huge and I believe the single biggest problem in the capitalist system is that the people in charge and making all the money want to stay in charge and make even more money.  Marx knew that and in the long term he knew it was not supportable.  And one of the symptoms we see now is the oligarchy so effectively wields it power that there is no longer checks on the system. I hope we can put it right like the author suggests, but the guillotines were pulled out before for a reason.  I have a feeling that next time it is going to involve more than France. I would like to commend Mr. Moore for a well though out article and the WSJ for printing it.  It refreshingly omitted party dogma and ideology and it is a discussion we sorely need to have.  I would call him out on a few points though.  First, our middle class has been disappearing since the 70s.  Second, Marx did not put a time limit on his predictions and neither should you.  He may be correct yet.  Third, the issue of corruption is huge and I believe the single biggest problem in the capitalist system is that the people in charge and making all the money want to stay in charge and make even more money.  Marx knew that and in the long term he knew it was not supportable.  And one of the symptoms we see now is the oligarchy so effectively wields it power that there is no longer checks on the system. I hope we can put it right like the author suggests, but the guillotines were pulled out before for a reason.  I have a feeling that next time it is going to involve more than France.How much of the "capital" is sucked out of the economic system in the USA by taxes?The government - federal, state, local - has become THE disproportionate owner of capital.The epitaph of the middle class will consist of overbearing labor laws, overbearing regulations, and over-taxation of business, all of which combined to make automation and outsourcing the most attractive option for beleaguered U.S. businesses. So what's changed?  Why do things seem to be going downhill?  Is it Capitalism?  Does globalization suddenly delegitimize capitalism?  We had this EXACT same discussion back in the 1980s when Japan and the "tiger economies" were about to economically sink the US.  What happened?  The 1990s with a huge boost in prosperity.  In fact, capitalism doesn't change.  Like nature and mathematics it just "is" as a constant.  But government changes.  Government invariably grows and as it does it attempts to regulate both capitalism and our lives by removing the risks associated with them.  Some would say it's stifling our society. Karl Marx's philosophies have repeatedly been disproven with the failure of Communism around the world.Capitalism is under attack because we have a large segment of the population who are lazy and entitled. The real culprit is deep seated jealousy.A competent and self-confident person is incapable of jealousy in anything. Jealousy is invariably a symptom of neurotic insecurity. Marx had predicted that communist revolutions would first take place in the most economically advanced nations.  Instead, they have only taken place in impoverished countries where uneducated farmers supplied the troops.       I see no possibility of the middle income office workers in the US or the UK taking arms against the established government.      In most cases, they do not even vote.     The author asks why workers do not own more equity in the companies which employ them.    This very question reveals a total lack of understanding about investment markets.     Since their jobs are already tied to the success of their employer, owning shares in that company would be the riskiest of all possible investments for the workers.   Not to mention the risk of owning a home in an area economically dependent on one's employer.Not to mention the risk of owning a home in an area economically dependent on one's employer.There have been enormous structural changes in our economy--as a result of economic forces, independent of government.  Those changes have impoverished the underclass of workers.Conservatives can see only the government as the source of all problems.Total up those cost you attribute to government.  See if they come to 90% of the wages of American workers.Chinese workers would work for 10% of American wages.That is the big difference, the reason for the capitalists to ship good American jobs to China.That huge wage differential was the reason, a reason next to which government cost pale into insignificance.Nevertheless, conservatives will come back to their central point, that government controls everything and government harms everything, and government drives all business decisions, and government ships good jobs to China, and India.The example you asked for:Since the 1970s, American corporations have shipped almost all American manufacturing jobs to China.  The reason that those jobs were shipped to China was that workers in China would work for slave wages, about 10 cents on the dollar of what American workers earned.The hollowing out of our manufacturing sector, about 40% of our male workforce, was undertaken by American corporations for economic reasons, only.Nothing that you can point to, in terms of unions or government taxes, or government regulations was significant in the corporations's decision.  The overriding motivation was the slave wages in China.The loss of millions of American jobs was the result of economic forces.But you won't believe that.  You will say that it was the government's fault.Remember the STAGFLATION of the 1970's? Government was the source of that problem.Mr. quickFailed premise.  Until quite recently the US had the largest manufacturing sector in the world. Still a very close second.  And, there is a small trend of jobs coming back to the us.That's because government - at all levels - is the largest single source of our problems as a nation.And, by 'government', I do NOT mean some nebulous entity 'out there', but the men and women in the US Senate and House of Representatives who sell their souls and our a-s-s-e-s for whatever they can get, as well as our Judiciary, which has shown itself to be more interested in social engineering and spontaneous legislating than in following the US Constitution and Bill of Rights. 1.  can hire workers at very low wages 2.  the companies don't have to pay any employee benefits3.   they 
don't have to comply with safety and environmental regulationsA Facelift for ShakespeareChildren’s Books: Old is New AgainCommunities Struggle to Care for Elderly, Alone at HomeH-P’s Then-Chairman Tried to Quash Autonomy AcquisitionNigeria Has Stopped Polio, WHO SaysVW Scandal Tests Auto-Loving GermanySome Funds in Your 401(k) Aren’t Really Mutual Funds After AllNASA's Hubble Snaps Image of Exploded StarSubscribeCustomer ServiceTools & FeaturesAdsMoreCopyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights ReservedThis copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.