Mainly cloudy and rainy.Rain showers early will evolve into a more steady rain overnight. Areas of patchy fog. Low 62F. Winds NE at 10 to 15 mph. Chance of rain 70%.From left, Melanie Colvin, Emily Frachtling, and Kelsey Favret cheer from inside the American Dance Festival bus during the annual N.C. Pride Parade on Saturday, September 26, 2015. The Herald-Sun | Christine T. NguyenMia Willis marches with members of the Greenville, N.C. chapter of PFLAG during the N.C. Pride Parade on Saturday, September 26, 2015. The Herald-Sun | Christine T. NguyenAva Iozuke, 15, carries a rainbow flag with Durham School of the Arts students during the N.C. Pride parade on Saturday, September 26, 2015. The Herald-Sun | Christine T. NguyenNatalie Nguyen, assistant director of the GLBT Center at N.C. State, takes part in the N.C. Pride parade on Saturday, September 26, 2015. The Herald-Sun | Christine T. NguyenFrom left, Melanie Colvin, Emily Frachtling, and Kelsey Favret cheer from inside the American Dance Festival bus during the annual N.C. Pride Parade on Saturday, September 26, 2015. The Herald-Sun | Christine T. NguyenMia Willis marches with members of the Greenville, N.C. chapter of PFLAG during the N.C. Pride Parade on Saturday, September 26, 2015. The Herald-Sun | Christine T. NguyenAva Iozuke, 15, carries a rainbow flag with Durham School of the Arts students during the N.C. Pride parade on Saturday, September 26, 2015. The Herald-Sun | Christine T. NguyenNatalie Nguyen, assistant director of the GLBT Center at N.C. State, takes part in the N.C. Pride parade on Saturday, September 26, 2015. The Herald-Sun | Christine T. NguyenDURHAM — An estimated 10,000 people participated in Saturday’s N.C. Pride festival, celebrating the LGBT community and the legalization of gay marriage.More than a dozen floats were part of a two-mile parade around Duke University’s East Campus, drawing young children, senior citizens and all ages in between.“This is a homecoming for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people,” parade organizer John Short said. “It allows us to gather and talk about our civil rights.”Short said the event began in Durham in 1981 to protest the murder of a person perceived to be gay, then evolved into a civil-rights movement.“Now it’s a celebration of our achievements so far,” Short said.Sebastian Portier-Young, 14, said he came to Saturday’s festival “to celebrate the fact that I’m pan-sexual and that gay marriage has been legalized. It’s nice to be here and meet people who are very similar, and give love to everyone.”The festival drew protesters, including a man with a sign that said: “Perverts on parade.”Sebastian said the protests were “quite a turnoff.”Hillsborough resident Lynne Millies came to the festival with her husband and their three sons.“I think it’s important to support gay rights, and now that gay marriage is legal, it shows that North Carolina is definitely for this,” she said.Carol Studenberg, 56, of Chapel Hill, wore a button that said: “God loves gays.”“I love it,” she said of the festival. “We’re all family; that’s why I’m here.”Her son, 16-year-old Trefor Studenberg, said he came to support gay rights and have a good time. “I like the atmosphere,” he said. “Everyone’s really friendly.”Durham native Pickens Barringer, 23, came with his boyfriend.“I’m super-excited about gay marriage being legal,” he said. “This is definitely a celebration now, because we won.”Seventy-six-year-old Kenny Bowen of Raleigh drove 30 miles through rain to attend.“I think it’s important to show that we exist, that we’re a force in the community,” he said. “We are a community, and many people don’t know that.”Riverside High School student Drayton Coleman, 16, was at the festival for the first time.“It’s an experience like you won’t find anywhere else other than another Pride Festival,” he said. “Durham is such a melting pot for so many types of people. It’s a loving and diverse community.”Caitlin Donovan, a teacher at Lakewood Montessori Middle School in Durham, said she came to support her students, friends and families.“It’s a time to honor everyone,” she said.In an interview, Chapel Hill Mayor Mark Kleinschmidt said Saturday was a day of “real celebration” because of the “historic moment when our government recognized our relationships to be on an equal par with everyone else. It was a long fight — one that had been challenging for the community.”Looking to the future, he said, full equality means “if you get married on Saturday that you can’t be fired on Monday. Unfortunately, that’s still something that could happen here in North Carolina.”Kleinschmidt said employment, housing and public accommodations issues “are fights we’re going to have to take on as well as discrimination that’s masquerading as religious freedom.”“We need to help people understand that when it comes to equality for all, it means equality — nothing less than that,” he said.Kleinschmidt said the LGBT community owes much to those who fought for racial equality and against segregation.“We stand on the shoulders of giants,” he said. “As a gay man, I couldn’t be more grateful for the work of civil-rights leaders from a generation or two ago. I think that’s why we’ve been able to be successful so quickly — because of the great work they did in showing us the way.”Keith Upchurch has worked for the paper since 1973. He is a 1972 graduate of Duke University, where he majored in political science and wrote for the Duke Chronicle as a student.
                                    
                                        Whenever Keith Upchurch posts new content, you'll get an email delivered to your inbox with a link.
                                    
                                Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.