SettingsCancelSetAlready a subscriber? Subscribe today for full access on your desktop, tablet, and mobile device.Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?Manage your account settings.View the E-NewspaperManage your NewslettersView your Insider deals and moreMember ID CardLog OutGet the newsAlready a subscriber?Subscribe today for full access on your desktop, tablet, and mobile device.Already a subscriber, but don't have a login?Let friends in your social network know what you are reading aboutSen. Jeff Stone criticizes the Iran nuclear deal and lawmakers who back it.A link has been sent to your friend's email address.A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. Subscribed, but don't have a login?As an elected official at the city, county, and now at the state level, it’s always been abundantly clear to me that my number one responsibility is ensuring our citizens are safe. Further, I firmly believe our national security should be and forever remain a nonpartisan issue.When it comes to national security, there has not been a recent issue more important to the safety of our nation than the nuclear proliferation agreement with Iran. An issue of this importance, of this magnitude, should NOT be made exclusively by one person, even in the United States of America.That’s why our Founding Fathers put the power to ratify treaties and foreign policy agreements in the hands of the United States Congress. While not a treaty per se, the Congress on Sept. 11 passed a set of bills appropriately condemning the short-sighted Iran deal that will effectively end sanctions in place against Iran — a nation whose leaders have called for a destruction of Israel and have bankrolled the very terrorists who seek to inflict maximum pain and casualties against Americans abroad as well as within our own borders.Allowing Iran to pursue its path to acquire the nuclear bomb is reckless, and the deal deserves to be rejected by Congress. When the civilized world came together originally to negotiate a peaceful settlement with Iran in exchange for loosening the economic sanctions against it, the mandate and goal was always very clear:First, stop the dangerous nuclear program in Iran.Second, ensure that IF a nuclear program were to continue, international monitors could have unfettered access any nuclear site in Iran, at any location, and any time.Unfortunately, President Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry failed, and as a result, put our country and the civilized world in severe danger.The facts with respect to Iran are very clear:With one of the largest oil reserves in the world, Iran has no legitimate reason to pursue an advanced and aggressive effort to acquire nuclear material. Despite their rhetoric, I am fairly certain their desire to go nuclear is not rooted in a concern over global warming.Iran is one of the largest global sponsors of terrorism, and its funding of groups like Hezbollah and al-Qaida should serve as a reminder that this is a nation who seeks to destroy us.Iran’s leaders have called America the “Great Satan” and have repeatedly called for the destruction of not only Israel, but America as well. Why would we give them such easy access to obtain nuclear weapons that could easily be detonated on American soil?After Congress failed to muster the necessary number of votes to thwart the ill-conceived nuclear deal with Iran, what will happen now?The answer is alarmingly simple: Iran will build a nuclear weapon.The deal requires us to give Iran 24 days’ notice to inspect any of their facilities. They control the inspectors and get to choose what they can inspect. Further, billions of dollars are now accessible to Iran so they continue building weapons that could be used against the United States.We are in scary times. In the State Senate, I authored Senate Joint Resolution 6 condemning the Iran nuclear deal, and it passed the Senate with no opposition.Unfortunately, our own member of Congress — Raul Ruiz — voted to approve the deal with Iran that will result in the largest state-sponsor of terrorism in the world to acquire the nuclear bomb.Contact Sen. Jeff Stone, who represents the 28th District, via www.Senate.ca.gov/Stone.