Mayor Rahm Emanuel will unveil his proposed 2016 city budget tomorrow, and what is expected to be a "bad news" spending plan is sparking plenty of last-minute tweaks, suggestions for change and other reaction today.In one key development, Emanuel began to move forward with the first chunk of what is likely to be the largest property tax increase in  Chicago history, a piece dedicated for Chicago Public Schools.In another, the City Council's 11-member Progressive Caucus was putting together an alternative property-tax-relief plan for low-income homeowners. The city would run the program itself, a contrast with a tax-relief proposal pushed by Emanuel that requires state approval but has run into opposition from Gov. Bruce Rauner.First, the CPS hike:Emanuel announced that the council this week will begin to consider a proposed $45 million property tax hike for schools. The city has had the power to impose this levy since at least 2003 but has held off on doing so.The money is supposed to go for capital improvements, not classroom teaching, and the mayor's office insisted that would be the case in this instance. "The funds would assist schools in need of overcrowding relief, complete air-conditioning for every classroom ahead of schedule, and provide resources for schools with facilities in dire need of overdue capital repairs," it said.But money can be fungible in government. Other funds that now don't have to be spent on physical improvements would be available for, say, teacher salaries and pensions.Meanwhile the Progressive Caucus was expected to unveil plans for a "tax rebate" to low-income homeowners to protect them from the impact of what could be a $500 million city property tax hike for police and fire pensions.The grants would be linked to income, not home value. That means City Hall would have to set  up a procedure to review applications and make rebate awards.The advantage of the proposal is that the city could run the program on its own. Emanuel's plan would require the support of state lawmakers and likely Rauner since it would change the state's homestead exemption law.But city bureaucrats administering a complex plan that would issue need-based checks totaling tens and maybe hundreds of millions of dollars a year would be quite a task. And it wouldn't do anything for those who rent rather than own their home.In other budget news, the proposal for higher cab and first-time ride-booking fees appears to be on. But I'm told that a plan Ald. Edward Burke, 14th, is pushing for a congestion tax on suburban residents who drive downtown to work likely won't get far.1:30 p.m. update:The Progressive Caucus has released a few more details, but its proposal is still, shall we say, a work in progress.The rebate indeed would be based on income, with any homeowner with an income up to 400 percent of the poverty level qualifying. That's roughly $97,000 for a household of four and $67,000 for a family of two. Rebates of up to $2,000 a household annually would be offered.However, caucus members—Ald. Carlos Ramirez-Rose, 35th, served as spokesman—wouldn't give even a vague estimate on how much the plan would cost the city if everyone who was qualified applied. They say they want to see Emanuel's proposed budget first. Nor would they give an estimate as to how many new city workers would be needed to process what potentially could be hundreds of thousands of applications a year.Renters would be out of luck. But sponsors are hoping for a much, much bigger response than an experimental tax rebate system linked to higher parking-meter income got a few years ago.
		                Copyright © 2015 Crain Communication, Inc.
		            