economicsHomebuilders“We find that the top income quintile has received about 90% of all credits,” Messrs. Borenstein and Davis said.The pattern is similar, though not as extreme, for other so-called clean-energy tax incentives. The authors dig through tax records to determine who’s claiming credits for residential energy-efficiency improvements, solar panel installation and purchase of alternative-fuel or electric vehicles.From 2006 to 2012, the most recent data available, tax credits totaled $18.1 billion, the authors find. In that time, taxpayers with an adjusted gross income greater than $75,000 received about 60% of those credit dollars for energy efficiency, residential solar and hybrid vehicles, and about 90% for electric cars.In other words, it’s a fairly regressive portion of the tax code. A more progressive tax–the authors suggest a carbon tax–would place more of the burden on the wealthy.“There may well be political considerations that continue to favor tax credits, but this approach comes at real cost, both in terms of efficiency and equity,” Messrs. Borenstein and Davis said.Related reading:Tax Cuts Boost Jobs, Just Not When Targeted at RichTax Credits Don’t Necessarily Boost College Attendance, Research FindsTrade Aid Package Renews a Pricey Health-Care Tax CreditWhich States’ Tax Laws Widen Inequality  xError messageHouseholds that pay 90% of federal income taxes buy 90% of electric cars?The WSJ is publishing selective facts in isolation to put electric cars in a bad light? Freaking shocking!!!Where does the electricity come from that is used to charge the batteries of electric cars? From generating plants that, by and large, burn coal. When you do the math, electric cars have a larger so-called carbon footprint than regular, gasoline-burning cars. But, then, liberals never do the math, they just do whatever makes them feel good, regardless of reality.It's mostly wealthy that buy new cars. Since they lose so much value just driving them off the lot, everyone else buys used.Totally agree on the carbon tax. Volkswagen probably wouldn't have cheated under that system.As Nobel economist Joseph Stiglitz has said: America has government of, by and for the rich.